<h1>Chatting with Node</h1>

This chat app uses Node.js and socket.io, complete with rooms and customizable nicknames. I test user input for commands like "/nick" or "/room", and otherwise handle the input as a message to the user's current room. /nick lets them change their nickname (but not to an already taken nickname, or one beginning with guest, since those are reserved to be assigned to users who are just connecting). /room lets them enter a room represented by the string that follows ("dogs", "Javascript", "beer" or what have you). The room is created if it doesn't already exist, but if it does, the user suddenly sees the chat messages of others in that room and can respond to them in turn. They can also see who else is in that room via a sidebar. Messages are displayed to all users in the room when anyone enters or exits, but some messages are only displayed to one user: for instance, if their nickname change fails a validation, that error will appear in the chat terminal, but only for the relevant user. (If they successfully change their nickname, that change can be broadcast to the other users in the room if desired, or merely reflected in the users sidebar.)

While the chat app wasn't nearly as complicated as designing a large project in Backbone and Rails, it *was* extremely fun to develop, and it offered me the opportunity to learn how to use Node and several of its modules better. It also involved extensive use of callbacks and listeners; once I would have thought that difficult, but now it is just matter of course. It's amazing how quickly those perceptions change.